challenges.md, before:

# GABIX

Your name is Gregory House aka Dr.House. You are very well known for your Doctor skills, so much that you have a TV show...

But what people don't know is that you also are a web developper in your spare time. You develop a website that lists all your patients, this way you don't need your notebook anymore. Also, people can reach you and other doctors through a search bar. You already have 500 patients and 2000 doctors use are referenced, but you leak some features...

# Important: you can leave notes/comments in this markdown

## 0. Find your bearings

Launch the Angular project and the API.
To log into your [professional account](http://localhost:4200/login), you will need an username and a password. Check through the application to find it and become familiar with the architecture. Make sure to be connected to the database and explore the new data generated.

    # Notes: Change linux script to cross platform ones, add a dockerless local development configuration, extentionless imports.

## 1. Timestamp

### _Angular_

On your [patients professional page](http://localhost:4200/professional/patients), add a new column `Birthdate` to the table. The date should be formatted to be easily readable (eg: `Apr 3rd 23`).

    # Notes: Format should match localization

### _API_

Patients do not have the `createdAt` and `updatedAt` timestamps created by the API by default. Add them so they are returned by the API.

    # Bonus: => create a js migration script (in ./migration-scripts) that adds these fields to the existing data and run on the databse
    NB: you can use mongodb for vscode to watch database colelctions and run the script

    # Notes: Used playground to do migrations script but we should implement a real migration process that keep track of applied migrations.

### _Fullstack_

Add a new column `createdAt` to the table of patients (human readable format).

## 2. CRUD

### _Angular_

Add a new button next to the patients table to add a new patient. When clicking on this button, a dialog open containing a form and ask for patient `firstname`, `lastname`, `email`, `phone` and `birthdate`. Only `firstname`, `lastname`, `email` are mandatory. When submitting the form, a `POST` http request is made containing the form values.

On success, the dialog close and the table is dynamically updated.

    # Notes: Should discuss the shape of data that could be authorized, i.e phone number, first and last name case ...

### _API_

From the request above, create a new route to create a patient for my professional account.

    # for CI => create e2e and unit tests and run them before commit your changes

    # Notes: birthdate is now optional in schema to pair with previous requirement as setting a default birthdate is not relevant.

## 3. Routing

### _Angular_

When clicking on a patient from the table, I am redirected to the page of the patient. There, I can see all the patient information on a beautiful page [as my own](http://localhost:4200/professional/me).

    # Notes: Patient Details are lazily loaded on route /patients/:id

### _API_

Create a route to GET a specific patient by ID only if it belongs to my professional account.

    # for CI => create e2e and unit tests and run them before commit your changes

    # Notes:

## 4. Optimization

### _Angular_

The result of the table should be paginated. I can choose between three different size of results: 25, 50, 100.

    # Notes: Added french MatPaginatorIntl

### _API_

Optimize the request fetching patient so as a pagination, I can pass parameters dynamically to fetch what I want.

    # for CI => create e2e and unit tests and run them before commit your changes

    # Notes:

## 5. my_sorting

### _Angular and/or API_

Sort the result of the table, by clicking the header column.

    # Notes: Add sort on page result, first is global to all result, subsequent ones are local to the page result.

## 6. Fetch my doctor

### _API_

From the [search bar](http://localhost:4200/search) make an optimized request that fetch professionals by expertize and by PRL service enabled.
I can search with and without accent, in uppercase or lowercase.

    # for CI => create e2e and unit tests and run them before commit your changes

    # Notes: Indexes have been set for names. The professional is firstly searched by its prl.enabled status, then mainExpertize (although this may not be ideal for performance, it can help the customer with choosing the right pro in the expertize domain) and finally by names.

### \_Fullstack - Front-end oriented

Implement a beautiful interface showing the interaction and the results of the API

    # Notes: Live search on professional's lastname or firstname, limited to 5 results and debounced.

## 7. Code review:

in this challenge, you have to make a review of an existing code and submit your comments in th notes zone of this markdown
the files to review are:

### _Angular_

`/angular/src/app/protected/my-account/my-account.component.ts`  
`/angular/src/app/core/services/professional.service.ts`

    # Notes:

### _API_

`api/src/app/services/professional.service.ts`  
`gabix/api/src/app/services/patients.service.ts`

    # Notes:

Commit message:

[7-CODE_REVIEW][ANGULAR] Add notes to my-account.component.ts and professional.service.ts

challenges.md, after:

# GABIX

Your name is Gregory House aka Dr.House. You are very well known for your Doctor skills, so much that you have a TV show...

But what people don't know is that you also are a web developper in your spare time. You develop a website that lists all your patients, this way you don't need your notebook anymore. Also, people can reach you and other doctors through a search bar. You already have 500 patients and 2000 doctors use are referenced, but you leak some features...

# Important: you can leave notes/comments in this markdown

## 0. Find your bearings

Launch the Angular project and the API.
To log into your [professional account](http://localhost:4200/login), you will need an username and a password. Check through the application to find it and become familiar with the architecture. Make sure to be connected to the database and explore the new data generated.

    # Notes: Change linux script to cross platform ones, add a dockerless local development configuration, extentionless imports.

## 1. Timestamp

### _Angular_

On your [patients professional page](http://localhost:4200/professional/patients), add a new column `Birthdate` to the table. The date should be formatted to be easily readable (eg: `Apr 3rd 23`).

    # Notes: Format should match localization

### _API_

Patients do not have the `createdAt` and `updatedAt` timestamps created by the API by default. Add them so they are returned by the API.

    # Bonus: => create a js migration script (in ./migration-scripts) that adds these fields to the existing data and run on the databse
    NB: you can use mongodb for vscode to watch database colelctions and run the script

    # Notes: Used playground to do migrations script but we should implement a real migration process that keep track of applied migrations.

### _Fullstack_

Add a new column `createdAt` to the table of patients (human readable format).

## 2. CRUD

### _Angular_

Add a new button next to the patients table to add a new patient. When clicking on this button, a dialog open containing a form and ask for patient `firstname`, `lastname`, `email`, `phone` and `birthdate`. Only `firstname`, `lastname`, `email` are mandatory. When submitting the form, a `POST` http request is made containing the form values.

On success, the dialog close and the table is dynamically updated.

    # Notes: Should discuss the shape of data that could be authorized, i.e phone number, first and last name case ...

### _API_

From the request above, create a new route to create a patient for my professional account.

    # for CI => create e2e and unit tests and run them before commit your changes

    # Notes: birthdate is now optional in schema to pair with previous requirement as setting a default birthdate is not relevant.

## 3. Routing

### _Angular_

When clicking on a patient from the table, I am redirected to the page of the patient. There, I can see all the patient information on a beautiful page [as my own](http://localhost:4200/professional/me).

    # Notes: Patient Details are lazily loaded on route /patients/:id

### _API_

Create a route to GET a specific patient by ID only if it belongs to my professional account.

    # for CI => create e2e and unit tests and run them before commit your changes

    # Notes:

## 4. Optimization

### _Angular_

The result of the table should be paginated. I can choose between three different size of results: 25, 50, 100.

    # Notes: Added french MatPaginatorIntl

### _API_

Optimize the request fetching patient so as a pagination, I can pass parameters dynamically to fetch what I want.

    # for CI => create e2e and unit tests and run them before commit your changes

    # Notes:

## 5. my_sorting

### _Angular and/or API_

Sort the result of the table, by clicking the header column.

    # Notes: Add sort on page result, first is global to all result, subsequent ones are local to the page result.

## 6. Fetch my doctor

### _API_

From the [search bar](http://localhost:4200/search) make an optimized request that fetch professionals by expertize and by PRL service enabled.
I can search with and without accent, in uppercase or lowercase.

    # for CI => create e2e and unit tests and run them before commit your changes

    # Notes: Indexes have been set for names. The professional is firstly searched by its prl.enabled status, then mainExpertize (although this may not be ideal for performance, it can help the customer with choosing the right pro in the expertize domain) and finally by names.

### \_Fullstack - Front-end oriented

Implement a beautiful interface showing the interaction and the results of the API

    # Notes: Live search on professional's lastname or firstname, limited to 5 results and debounced.

## 7. Code review:

in this challenge, you have to make a review of an existing code and submit your comments in th notes zone of this markdown
the files to review are:

### _Angular_

`/angular/src/app/protected/my-account/my-account.component.ts`  
`/angular/src/app/core/services/professional.service.ts`

    # Notes:
    ## my-account.ts
    - professional$ should be of type Observable<ProfessionalDto> for type safety
    - It's preferable that formGroup and formBuilder are typed
    - There is no unsubscription throughout this component lifecycle using unsubscribe or takeUntil thus conducting to memory leaks

    ## professional.service.ts
    - Api urls are hard coded
    - some methods are untyped, some return a subscription whereas some return observable
    - there is no error handling

### _API_

`api/src/app/services/professional.service.ts`  
`gabix/api/src/app/services/patients.service.ts`

    # Notes:
